[Music]
so in this in this horse school program
we have a total at the moment of eight
or a maternal age vulnerable orphan has
gone through the trauma of losing his or
her mother the long-term goal is to
release them into protected forests and
boost wild populations but we
habilitation can often fail many
orangutans do not survive in the wild
after release they often lack vital
skills which they would have learned
from their mother's high in the treetops
the canopy is where orangutans 'z find
food shelter and safety from predators
and that's part of the problem
as long as we have many caretakers on
the ground it's almost impossible to get
the wrong with us all up in the trees
signe had an idea their caregivers would
have to lead the way into the trees
[Music]
James lead is a highly experienced rope
access specialist okay so this is called
the throw line and this is called the
throat pouch nada
man-bat row the idea if the carers can
climb then their orangutan should follow
[Music]
once it starts swinging lower it down
there you go but the real test will come
when boisterous young orangutans are
added to the mix
[Music]
up here they can really strengthen their
climbing skills explore new heights and
discover new foods all with the safety
of their caretaker nearby this is a
positive first step towards these
infants becoming truly at home in the
canopy
signe hope she's giving these orangutans
the tools they need to survive and if
she can release them one day where they
belong in the wild
[Music]